---
layout: post
title: Consumed
date: 2024-10-05
description: 
tags: short-story
categories: 
---


First, I consumed my mum. Eventually, she gave birth to me and I consumed what I found in the delivery room of the hospital. I consumed the attention of the doctor and I consumed the wipes and detergent they used to separate me from the bloody goo. I consumed the bright light that fell out of the white lamps overhead to break in the lenses on my brand-new retinas.

After we left the hospital, I consumed what my mum and my dad arranged around me. I consumed what I was supposed to and what I was not. I consumed nappies, dummies, puréed food, and the words my parents fed me. I also consumed the dog that bit me and was put down. Bacteria began to consume me, living in my blood, and I consumed it so aggressively that I began to consume myself. And so I was desperately driven back to the hospital to be given back to the doctor. I consumed the tyres of the Ford Mondeo my parents drove me in and the tarmac of the road beneath them. While my underdeveloped heart spastically tried to keep me alive, I consumed the fears of my grandfather and of the nurse that checked on me at night. I left the hospital again, but not before consuming another tick's worth of biro ink on the paper of the hospital's outpatient register.

I kept consuming my mum. I consumed her and my dad, countless hours of them wiping away my piss and shit and laundering my filthy clothes and making sure I didn't starve to death. I consumed enormous amounts of them, more than they could have expected. So much that they felt overconsumed, shouting and weeping to let the world know that what it was taking away was too much.

I cried a lot too. I do not know if they blamed me for the crying. I'm sure that sometimes they couldn't help but blame me, even though they knew it would be of no help, feeling the same kind of irritation as when you have squeaky shoes or feel mistreated by a self-service checkout counter. They knew I was not able to effect any change in the world intentionally. I hadn't heard any ideas about the right way to treat people. I hadn't made any mistakes. I didn't even know what a mistake was. I didn't even know what an idea was. I was more like a draining sink, spilled bleach, a wildfire, or woodrot than a person: I created change in the world, but I did not choose it.

I did not choose to grow. But I did grow. Inefficiently but steadily, each year I depleted countless kilos of things around me, messily filtering them through my body so that my organs could enlarge. My bones extruded and my skin stretched. The world bent around me to create a pocket in which I was able to persist. I put on layers that would degrade so that I would not, or at least not as quickly: rubber under my feet and cotton and polyester over my shoulders. There were even layers I put on for the layers, an additional layer over my messiest parts to keep the other layers safe from their corruption.

Old enough to talk, the things I asked my parents to give me to consume were not the things they would give me anyway. They reliably gave me somewhere to sleep, something to eat, somewhere to shit, safety from harm, and someone to talk to. Thousands and thousands of days, and on every single day every single one of these things was granted to me by them. They were so reliable in delivering the goods that the possibility of their failure did not exist to me. In my world, things had been arranged so that what I needed to survive was as sure to come as wood from a tree or water from the sea. So, when I spoke to them, I asked them for the things that I wouldn't get anyway.

My parents moved to a suburban newly built housing estate. They told each other it seemed safe and like a place where they could get good jobs. They were right. It was safe and they did get good jobs. The housing estate was a model of stability. Things there seemed unchangeable. With the exception of eroded dirt paths created by repeated shortcuts across grass verges, and small trees pulled over by bad kids, things did not change very much. 

Right after we moved, my parents allowed me to play with my brother on a big mound of debris in a part of the estate that wasn't yet finished. We called it the Heap. The mud on the Heap had been shaped by the tyres of diggers into crazy shapes that contained all sorts of odd objects. Playing on the Heap was a lot more fun than playing in the street or in the park. But the Heap was taken away and replaced with more houses. And those houses did not change. The houses, the paths, the greens, the lampposts, and the bus-stops did not change.

The people living in the estate were not as durable and fixed as the houses. They did change. People left and arrived. They died and aged. They changed their things. The colour and shape of their cars and clothes changed. Some of the people changed beyond recognition, changing in terrible ways that everyone found upsetting. One man shot his wife and then himself. And a boy tried to shoot off his friend's face.

I focused on the things that I saw changing - myself, the people around me, and the small objects that tumbled by. I manicured what I could see and didn't think much about what I couldn't. I put gel in my hair and wore a t-shirt that let my friends know I liked the same football team as them. I begged my parents to buy me an expensive bike that I thought looked the right way. I re-watched the advert for the iPhone dozens of times and fantasised about what it would be like to own one. I selectively destroyed and built myself so that I could more successfully consume the world around me. 

I consumed more than what I saw. I consumed so much that I did not consider that things might consume me, or might consume others, or that I might be consuming others.

I didn't consume things in their entirety. I did deplete things, but not usually so that they became totally unrecognisable or vanished. Most things I consumed continued on their way, changed by me and having changed me. I received inputs and returned outputs, taking care of them when they were as close as possible to being inputs and outputs. I did not just absorb or annihilate things. I was not a subterranean vault for sequestering nuclear waste. And I was not a parcel of extreme gravity, magically compacting extraordinary amounts of matter to a volumeless point. 

Lots of the things I touched turned to waste. There was so much of it and it posed such a threat to me and others that it was kept hidden from me. I did not think about it. The bin was kept out of sight in a cupboard beneath the sink. The wheelie bins were stored around the side of the house. I wore my clothes and shoes until my parents decided I was not wearing them or should not wear them, and then they vanished. I didn't really think about what happened to my old bikes or videogame consoles or footballs. And what about the fat TV? They all just disappeared. And it wasn't even done as a magic trick, since no-one had bothered to ask me whether I was watching closely. And the police weren't informed since no-one cared that these things had gone missing.

The same was true for mess as for waste. Mess would get made, then spontaneously vanish. That is, with the exception of mess in my room, which was a pain in the ass since it had been demarced as I was responsible for. I didn't really care if my room was messy. At the dinner table, my mum put new potatoes on my plate. Me, hating new potatoes, slyly said "yum", packed them into my mouth, then wordlessly excused myself to go to the bathroom. Except I didn't go to the bathroom. I went to my room and spat each one of the potatoes into an old black pencilcase which I zipped up and shoved down the side of my bed.

On the timescales of my childhood, degradation, waste, and mess did not exist. Things were created and endured. I did not see them decay. My parents did not seem to get older. My brother and sisters grew, but they got bigger and fiercer, not smaller and more frail. What I saw was a world that became stronger, not one that degraded and died. Apart from one night at my grandparents'. I was in bed hearing my grandparents talking and laughing at the TV next door and the thought popped into my head that one day they might die. Frightened, I tried to suppress it and just for the love of god go to sleep.

I didn't ask why something was waste or mess. Or ask at what point it became waste, or question who really was deciding whether it was waste. It just seemed obvious. I developed a reflex that told me that after I had touched something that it had become less. It would be used - worn, known, smudged, heard, absorbed, aged. I had mutated the thing for my ends and in doing so had partially depleted it.

I became old and realised I was destroying everything and that things were destroying me. So, pained and mourning for all of the things I had destroyed, I tried not to destroy anything. But I found I could not. I saw my shoes wearing out, so I stopped wearing them. But then my feet became filthy and bloody. I saw the floor becoming dirty and worn, and so I stopped walking on it. But then I found I couldn’t leave my bed and I began to waste away. Even when I stood gently on one leg with my breath held, I saw around me things spontaneously degrading. 

So, too few years before I died, I realised that I had been fooled by the fixed and growing appearances of my childhood. As well as creation, change involved destruction. And it depended who you asked which was which. I could not opt out of change and so could not completely opt out of destruction. Change could at best be arranged so that it degraded what could be sacrificed and cherished what was sacred. And so, feeling silly but glad, I started destroying things with care, summoning sacred new things from a well-chosen selection of sacrificed old things. I studied what was destroyed, and what was created, and how less could be used to make more. Appreciating that all of the new was the gift of degradation or annihilation of the old, I revered and thanked what was sacrificed. 

On my deathbed, I asked for my lawyer. When they came, I said to them that the things I had created would one day cease to be sacred for others, and on that day I wanted them destroyed. The lawyer, my friend who I had known for a long time and who had seen me working so hard, asked me whether I was sure about that. After all, I was talking about my life’s work. I laughed and said yes I’m sure.
