---
layout: post
title: The teapot
date: 2024-10-13
description: 
tags: short-story
categories: 
---

The phone is cheap and small. Its screen is greasy. But let me instead tell you about the teapot, which I much prefer. 

When you look at the teapot, you think it might be a toy from a play tea set. It has bright bits. Its lid’s like an electroplated areola, ceramicised to the same shade of lime-green that gets injected into Twisters. The handle too looks tasty and inedible, a porcelain rib lovingly brushed with a single rich stroke of burgundy glaze.

But you know the teapot is not a toy. Its handle is too big and its body too heavy to be comfortably handled by small hands. The specks of glare you see on its surfaces are hard, not soft, and so tell you that the teapot is ceramic, not plastic. Ceramic materials are no good for children’s toys. If small hands handled and dropped this teapot then it would smash. Tea and fragments of ceramic would explode and then get trodden across the floor. Disaster.

The teapot sits quietly on the table. But, in spite of its wordlessness, you still hear almost all of its sounds. Relaxed private chatter from other tables, the groan and hiss of the coffee machine as it relieves itself, the squealing of chair legs as their chairs get tucked or untucked, and the intermittent tinkle of windchimes broadcasting another swing of the cafe’s door.    

You think to yourself that the teapot looks cosy. There are five-leaf clovers stamped in festive hues all over its enamel paunch. This and its lime green lid say that it is a character that is dressed for winter. It has its knitted sweater and bobble hat and they are exactly what it needs to keep itself and its tea warm.

Someone clearly takes care of the teapot. It’s unchipped and is clean. At least, it’s clean unless you study where the light hits it just so, where water marks are revealed. The nipple of the lid has not yet been gripped enough for the green to have been selectively worn away to the raw enamel beneath. Peaking out of the teapot’s spout you see tea stains, but you find these charming. They just let you know that although someone finds this teapot difficult to wash, they still love it enough to keep it around.

Glancing off of the teapot are two kinds of glare. One, scattered like fairy lights along the tops of the lid and handle, is a warm kind. The other, glued like a melted postage stamp to the teapot’s side, is cool. Together they tell you which way is inside, which way is outside, what time of day it is, and which way is up. They make you feel glad to be where you are.

If you pick up the teapot and raise it over your head, a risky maneuver, you can see its base. It is stained with a blue seal. When first stamped, the letters of this seal seeped a little, but they froze into type that’s clear enough to read now. It says ‘Whittard’. The teapot’s name? It’s progenitor? This is a teapot that is proud of itself. You suspect this is an important teapot, one that was carefully chosen. 

A teacup accompanies the teapot on the table. Like the teapot, it too is wearing a porcelain jumper adorned with festive clovers, and it too has a burgundy ribbon, this one finely wrapped around its lip. But the teacup has no lime-green lid. Since it has no lid, its inside is exposed to the elements. Thankfully, possibly because of the good fortune brought by the clovers, it does not need to worry, since it has the teapot nearby for warmth.

At just this moment, however, the teacup must be getting cold, since the tea has nearly been completely drained from it. It is not being refilled. What tea is left is lurking evasively at the bottom of the cup’s basin. The teacup will soon be cleared away and the teapot will be cleared away with it. And then? You will no longer be able to look at the teapot.
