---
layout: post
title: Wake
date: 2024-11-17
description: 
tags: nonsense
categories: 
---


Sleep receives attention from the popular consciousness in spades. People would like to know how much of it to get, how to pattern it, and what sort or sorts it should be. They would like to know, for example, how to arrange their day’s last moments of wakefulness so they can visit Nod with a minimum of fuss, have a nice stay, and return home on time and without too much discomfort. Do I need a white noise machine? What about the humidifier? The autotuck-and-lullaby mattress? This ring that chants actigraphic riddles? Being harangued by bus air-brakes and bin lorries at 5am is probably a bad thing, right?

In waltz with this popular enthusiasm for improving sleep is a surge in sleep analysis. Sleep’s been decomposed into cycles and phases to demarc repetition, sameness, variation, and innovation in the state of the sleeper, and measures of sleep quality have been crafted and correlated with various life factors such as mood, alertness, physical might, and performance on problem-solving tasks. Sleep’s been sawed up into pieces, the pieces have been labeled, and people are sifting through them trying to figure out which bits are, in fact, critical components of waking activities.

My impression is that most of the enthusiasm about sleep is really enthusiasm about wakefulness. Make no mistake: people like sleeping, but they don’t engineer their sleep simply to improve their sleep. They do it to improve their wakefulness. You, dear reader, may even feel a tickle of curiosity about how you could make your own sleep more pleasurable for its own sake. I certainly do. But I suspect that when a person’s buying overpriced magnesium or a dehumidifier and they’re telling the cashier it’s ‘for their sleep’, the quest they’re on is likely _better wakefulness_ rather than _better sleep_. 

A villain in this mix-up is the English language. English - at least, standard English - seems to conspire against speakers that try to talk about sleep and wakefulness. ‘sleep’ has a single syllable, whereas ‘wakefulness’ has three of them. Who has time to talk about wakefulness? For whatever reason, the contraction to ‘wake’ (‘asleep’ / ‘awake’, if you’re a linguist who has a better idea then write to me) hasn’t happened yet, at least not among the people I speak to and read. I have yet to be prematurely fobbed off by anyone telling me ‘I’m getting out of bed early to get a good day’s wake.’.

Mercifully, this villain is easily defeated. We can untangle sleep discourse by removing the circumlocutory step: when interested in wakefulness, we can talk directly about wakefulness - about wake (yes, we’re going to do it).

A rich seam for research, to my greenhorn eye, at least, is to ask analogous questions about wake that we’ve been asking about sleep. How can we split it up into phases? What is wake’s structure? How predictive are its duration and active phases of the things people care about, such as mood, physical performance, and attentional control? Occupationally, I could imagine people clamoring to see a wake specialist.

_So you’re interested in improving your wake, hm? And this is to improve your wake, or your sleep? Your sleep is important, you know, it depends in all sorts of ways on your wake. If you take care to wake well, your sleep will be superb. Interested in improving your wake, right… Well, perhaps a good place to start is to tell me what happens while you wake, what activities and places you find yourself in, and as you’re doing that I’ll get out my slides showing you the phases of wake…_

Hear the agitated honking of the two alarm clocks. 

One’s letting us know that we could be sleeping for the sake of sleeping. What makes a night’s sleep enjoyable? How can I get some of that? There are at least two subcultures dedicated specifically to an aspect of sleeping, namely lucid dreamers and polyphasic sleepers. There could be more. I can imagine the cosycore acolytes going buck wild for cosymaxed sleep. _Sleep for sleep’s sake_, their tattoos could read.

The other alarm honks to remind us that a better day’s wake and night’s sleep are both borne from punctilious analysis and cultivation of wake, as well as sleep. The body’s passing through phases while it’s awake just like when it’s asleep. These phases interact with where you are and what you're doing, and are linked to all sorts of things you’re interested in. And yet, I could tell you more about what happens during an R.E.M. phase of sleep than I could about any of the phases of wake.

