

First, I consumed my mum. Eventually, she gave birth to me, and I consumed what I found in the delivery room of the hospital. I consumed the attention of the doctor and I consumed the wipes and detergent they used to separate me from the bloody goo. I consumed the bright light that fell out of the white lamps overhead to break in the lenses of my brand-new retinas. And I consumed the bedding of my cot in the hospital.

After we left the hospital, I consumed what my mum and my dad arranged around me. I consumed what I was supposed to and what I was not. I consumed nappies, dummies, pureed food, and the words my parents fed me. I also consumed the dog that bit me and was put down. Bacteria began to consume me, living in my blood, so I was desperately driven back to the hospital to be put on life support. I consumed the tyres of the Ford Mondeo my parents drove me in and the tarmac of the road beneath them. While my underdeveloped heart spastically tried to keep me alive, I consumed the fears of my grandfather and the nurse that checked on me at night. I left the hospital again, but not before consuming a tick's worth of biro ink on the paper of the hospital's outpatient register.

I kept consuming my mum. I consumed her and my dad, countless hours of them wiping away my piss and shit and laundering my filthy clothes and making sure I didn't starve to death. I consumed enormous amounts of them, more than they could have expected, so much that they felt overconsumed, shouting and weeping to let the world know that it was taking away too much of them.

I cried a lot too. I do not know if they blamed me for the crying. I'm sure that sometimes they couldn't help but blame me, even though they knew it would be of no help, feeling the same kind of irritation as when you have squeaky shoes or feel mistreated by a self-service checkout counter. They knew I was not able to effect any change in the world intentionally. I hadn't heard any ideas about what's the right way to treat people. I hadn't made any mistakes. I didn't even know what a mistake was. I didn't even know what an idea was. I was more like a draining sink, spilled bleach, a wildfire, or woodrot than a person: I created change in the world, but my parents did not believe I chose it.

I did not choose to grow. But I did grow. Inefficiently but steadily, each year I depleted countless kilos of things around me, messily filtering them through the sieve of my body so that my organs could englarge. My bones extruded and my skin stretched. The world bent around me to create a pocket in which I was able to persist. I put on layers that would degrade so that I would not, or at least so that I would not degrade as quickly: rubber under my feet and cotton and polyester over my shoulders. There were even layers I put on for the layers, an additional layer over my messiest parts to keep the other layers safe from being corrupted by them. 

Old enough to talk, the things I asked my parents to give me to consume were not the things they would give me anyway: somewhere to sleep, something to eat, somewhere to shit, safety from harm, and someone to talk to. Thousands and thousands of days, and on every single day every single one of these things was granted to me by them. They were so reliable in delivering the goods that the possibility of their failure did not exist to me. In my world, things had been arranged so that what I needed to survive was as sure to come as wood from a tree or water from the sea. So, when I spoke, I asked for the things I wouldn't get anyway.

My parents moved to a suburban newly built housing estate because they thought it would be secure. It seemed safe and they could both get good jobs. They were right, it was safe. The housing state was a model of stability. Things there seemed unchangeable. With the exception of eroded dirt paths created by repeated shortcuts across grass verges, and small trees pulled over by bad kids, things did not change. Right after we moved my parents allowed me to play with my brother on a big mound of debris in a part of the estate that wasn't yet finished, the Heap. The mud on the Heap contained all sorts of odd objects and had been shaped by the tyres of diggers into crazy shapes. Playing on the Heap was a lot more fun than playing in the street or in the park. But then it was taken away and replaced with more houses. And those houses did not change. The cars on the street would change a little bit. But the houses, the paths, the greens, the lampposts, and the bus-stops did not change.

The people were not as durable and fixed as the houses: they did change. Some of them were consumed beyond recognition. One man shot his wife and then himself. A boy tried to shoot off his friend's face. People arrived and left. The cars changed a bit.

There was so little change in most things that I focused on the things that did: myself, the people around me, and the small objects that tumbled by. I manicured what I could see and didn't think much about what I couldn't. I put gel in my hair and wore a t-shirt that let my friends know I liked the same football team as them. I begged my parents to buy me an expensive bile that I thought looked the right way. I re-watched the advert for the iPhone dozens of times and fantasised about what it would be like to own one. I selectively destroyed and built myself so that I could more successfully consume the world around me. Some substances - especially being fancied by the girls I liked - needed special tooling or months of work before they eventually came free and I could consume them.

 I consumed more than what I saw. I consumed so much that I did not consider that things might consume me, or might consume others, or that I might be consuming others.

I didn't consume things in their entirety. I did deplete things, but not usually so that they became unrecognisable or vanished. Most things I interacted with continued on their way, changed by me and having changed me. I received inputs and returned outputs, taking care of them about when they were as close as possible to being inputs and outputs. I did not just absorb things. I was not a subterranean vault for sequestering nuclear waste. And I was not a parcel of extreme gravity, magically compacting extraordinary amounts of matter to a volumeless point. Most of the things I touched turned to waste. There was so much of it, and it posed such a threat to me and others that it was kept hidden from me. I did not think about it. The bin was kept out of sight in a cupboard beneath the sink. The wheelie bins were stored around the side of the house. I took care of the inputs and outputs when they were as closed they got to being inputs and outputs. I wore my clothes and shoes until my parents decided I was not wearing them or should not wear them, and then they vanished. I didn't really think about what happened to my old bikes or videogame consoles or footballs. And what about the fat TV? They all just disappeared. And it wasn't even done as a magic trick, since no-one had bothered to ask me whether I was watching closely. And the police weren't informed, since no-one cared that these things had gone missing.

The same was true of mess as for waste. Mess would get made, then spontaneously vanish. That is, with the exception of my room, which was a pain in the ass since that had been demarced as something I was supposed to tidy. I didn't really care if it was messy. Really! At the dinner table, my mum had put new potatoes on my plate. Me, hating new potatoes, slyly said "yum", packed them into my mouth, then wordlessly excused myself to go to the bathroom. Except I didn't go to the bathroom. I went to my room and spat each one of the potatoes into an old black pencilcase which I zipped up and shoved down the side of my bed.

On the timescales of my life, degradation, waste, and mess did not exist. Things were created and endured. I did not see them degrade. My parents did not seem to get older. My brother and sisters grew, but they got bigger and fiercer, not smaller and more frail. What I saw was a world that became stronger, not one that degraded and died. Apart from one night at my grandparents. I was in bed hearing them talking and laughing at the TV next door and the thought popped into my head that one day they might die. Frightened, I tried to suppress the thought and just for the love of god go to sleep.

I didn't ask why something was waste or mess. Or ask at what point it became waste, or question who really decided whether it was waste. It just seemed obvious. I developed a reflex that told me that after I had touched something that it had become less. It would be used - worn, known, smudged, heard, absorbed, aged. I had mutated the thing for my ends and in doing so had partially depleted it. 

We had TV dinners for a while, then went back to eating at the dining table. I would sit there and destroy the food that my mum set out for me, and the plate it came on.

I became old and realised I was destroying everything and that things were destroying me. So, pained and mourning for all of the things I had destroyed, I tried not to destroy anything. But I found I could not. My shoes wore out, so I stopped wearing them. The floor became dirty and worn, so I stopped walking on it. Even lying on the bare ground 

So I started destroying things selectively. I destroyed them with the knowledge that destruction and genesis occur in the same moment, that 
